# sql-challenge
This Challenge is divided into three parts: data modeling, data engineering, and data analysis.

## Data Source
Data for this dataset was generated by Mockaroo, LLCLinks to an external site., (2022). Realistic Data Generator.

## Instructions:
Part 1: Data Modeling
All 6 CSV files were inspected and then an Entity Relationship Diagram of the tables were sketched. The sketch was created using a tool like QuickDBD.

Part 2: Data Engineering
1.Using the provided information from the six CSV files a table schema was created.
2. Each CSV file was imported  into its corresponding SQL table. 

Part 3: Data Analysis
1.    The employee number, last name, first name, sex, and salary of each employee was listed.
2.    The first name, last name, and hire date for the employees who were hired in 1986 was listed.
3.    The manager of each department along with their department number, department name, employee number, last name, and first name was listed.
4.    The department number for each employee along with that employee’s employee number, last name, first name, and department name was listed.
5.    First name, last name, and sex of each employee whose first name is Hercules and whose last name begins with the letter B was listed.
6.    Each employee in the Sales department, including their employee number, last name, and first name was listed.
7.    Each employee in the Sales and Development departments, including their employee number, last name, first name, and department name was listed.
8.    The frequency counts, in descending order, of all the employee last names (that is, how many employees share each last name) were listed.

### Prerequisites
•    Tools need to have installed before project:
•    PgAmin 4
•    PostgreSQL 14
•    QuickDBD
•    GitHub
•    Local git repository sql challenge was created , cloned and changes were 
     pushed to main branch.

## Analysis
•    Inside sql-challenge repository, there is main folder named EmployeeSQL  
     which has the following:
•    An image file of ERD is created and named as ERD_homework.png
•    An ERD_homeworkschema.sql file is created for the schema table.
•    An ERD_homework_query.sql file is created for the queries mentioned above. 
•    An Images folder  is created to store the screenshots results of all the   
     eight queries.
•    A folder named data is created, which has all the six csv files in it.
